there were a lot of reasons to regard
the candidacy of Bernie Sanders without
them ISM a lot of reasons a lot of
reasons to be excited about the concept
to the United States of America would
finally catch up with Scotland Taiwan
and Canada in providing cost-free health
care to the poor
having cheaper tuition all kinds of
opportunities for the poorest 20% of my
budget all kinds of reason to be
optimistic about that you wouldn't want
that optimism to blind you to the
important fact that this is somebody who
made excuses for communist dictatorships
around the world from at least 1982 to
1989 would you you wouldn't want to be
the kind of person who says oh no it's
not politically convenient for me to
think about that it's not politically
convenient for me to do that so I'm just
gonna pretend it isn't true
you wouldn't want to live a lie because
it's politically it's yourself you just
to do so no that would make you just
like all the people you disagree with
the despise in politics I mean what if
it's really important to have the
maturity and the detachment to
appreciate you know what's promising
about Bernie Sanders
in his current campaign or what things
he's right about and to also have a kind
of balanced down-to-earth view about you
know what what might be wrong with
Bernie Sanders past president future um
does it matter does it matter at 2019
that Bernie Sanders used to make
positive statements about economies and
theater ships around the world does it
matter that in 1988 he chose to go for
his honeymoon vacation with his newly
wedded wife to the Soviet Union and to
say positive things about Soviet it
matters he tells you something about
Bernie Sanders claims he cares about the
poor uplifting the poor in that decade
the decade of the 1980s what were the
most successful countries in the world
and lifting the poor out of poverty
Japan South Korea those countries were
totally devastated totally devastated in
World War two
right some areas bombed to being just a
parking lot and they rose up out of that
devastation and created educational
opportunities to the people and economic
opportunities there people is the arrow
who was normally called the economic
miracle and Japan and South Korea both
this kind of language is someone with
Bernie Sanders his political agenda
might have developed a fascination with
and an appreciation for what had
happened in Japan in the decade of the
nineteen eighties and he didn't could
have been Singapore could have been
South Korea could have been Denmark
Sweden or Norway but it wasn't the
political and economic examples that
interested Bernie Sanders were cuba
nicaragua and the Soviet Union
aka Russia that was what he was
interested in emulating learning from
and praising and none of those countries
none of them were successfully helping
to alleviate the poor were lifting the
port authority down them none of them
had a record remotely as impressive as
Japan during the same period of time you
know Japan had its own political
problems but Japan did very
fundamentally have freedom of the press
democracy their democracy was a direct
imitation of the American system of
democracy in that period their
constitution was written by members of
the American military it's a really
funny story that's how things wrapped up
at your ban after World War two hey you
know what it could have been West
Germany in the same period also alright
and if that were the case we'd be
sitting around saying boy you know
Bernie Sanders he's a weird guy he
really spent the 1980s traveling back
and forth to Japan and studying like
maybe the automotive industry Japan and
say hey look the automotive industry of
Japan is booming at the same time it's
collapsed United States and looking at
how the Japanese provide their people
with
care and you know how maybe he would
have learned some things from that and
we have a very different perspective on
the autobiographical portion of this
book today in dealing
if we are to believe the convenient myth
that he made excuses for communism in
cuba nicaragua
and the soviet union only only during
the decade of the 1980s and he certainly
had changed his tune by 1991 a book like
this would be a really good opportunity
for him to do some soul-searching and to
say how wrong he was in his youth and
how different his perspective his thing
and you guys know he wasn't exactly
young in the 1980s I was I remember my
perspective and might debates with my
parents about a lot of it those issues
you know from that period I was a kid
instead the only invention the only
admission of the extent to which he was
involved with
justifying supporting and and visiting
these these timers counters here you get
just a couple sentences saying that he
established you know a sister city
program linking the the town he was
mayor of to one town in the Soviet Union
and one town in Nicaragua and that those
programs still injured this day so that
to me is very different from reading the
perspective of someone who really tells
you that hey during a certain spirit of
his life he was a socialist and he was a
communist and then he realized something
and he really changed his perspective if
your fundamental agenda is helping the
poor if your fundamental agenda is
improving health care if your
fundamental agenda is improving
education then you would go to an exam
in the countries that have the best
education system in the world the
education system that works the best for
poor people the best education of the
whole rates in tuition you would visit
the countries in the world that have the
best
health care systems in the world you
would visit the countries that really
had the best economies that it lifted
the poor out of poverty or where they
had almost zero unemployment hit hit
Japan it's still true of Japan today to
her remarkable extent
but Japan in the 1980s you're talking
about 2 percent unemployment 2.5 percent
it was so unnerving to the Americans
that there's still this myth circulating
in the newspapers that the Japanese do
the math for the unemployment rate in an
unfair we're like oh no they're cheating
they're not cheating do it
I studied the economics of Japan
University oh it's real the 2.5 percent
unemployment in the 1980s it's real the
success of their automotive industry it
was real Bernie Sanders lived through it
and was he interested no he was buying
himself an airplane to get to Nicaragua
and making excuses for that regime he
was by himself and everyone to get to
the Soviet Union and so on and you know
people won't let him off the hook by
using this term socialist what what
happened to socialists in the Soviet
Union
you know this the Year 1917 is the year
of the revolution
meaning the Bolshevik Revolution there's
more than one revolution and it's your
Russia and they're kind of clustered
uncomfortably close together ok you know
they had elections you can find that out
on Wikipedia it was really hard to find
that out in the Soviet Union back when
the commies controlled education system
and you know who won the elections
it wasn't the Bolsheviks it was the
Socialists you may think now from the
perspective 2019 that the difference
between socialist and communist is like
the difference between chocolate and
chocolate chip but it's not what
happened after the Bolsheviks lost the
elections was that they hunted down and
murdered every single member of the
Socialist Party in the whole country
every single person who is elected to
Parliament all the winners in their
Parliament were hunted down and murdered
in the most brutal way imaginable we
have a lot of witnesses to that history
because many of the members of
parliament themselves and many of their
supporters the Socialists who got way
more votes and way more seats in the
Bolsheviks by far a lot of them fled
step by step ever further east it was
toward Siberia lot of them didn't make
it as far as Siberia you know what's up
it's a huge country from east to west
they were hunted down and died as the
russian civil war time if you were a
socialist if you were a Democratic
Socialist as Bernie Sanders described
himself you would have more reason than
anyone else to utterly despise the
Soviet Union because the Soviet Union
was a country founded on hunting down
and killing people like you people with
precisely your political ideology
instead what Bernie Sanders was in the
parlance of postmodern communism he was
a fellow traveler he was someone who got
along with and supported communists
without really being explicitly a
communist himself um
I say again there's every reason to
regard the candidacy of Bernie Sanders
Oh as a positive and hopeful thing for
the future of the United States of
America his past political beliefs
matter you can't be any more morally
pure than the people you make excuses
for if you made excuses as for the
Soviet Union in support of Fidel Castro
in Cuba it matters